README Proj 4: GERP!
Kasey Afshani and Hank Sun 
kafsha01 and hsun03


Two warnings when compiling: We decided to pass in our hash (a private member 
variable) as a parameter to a couple of functions for modularity, as we have to 
pass in a hash that is not our private member variable when calling our expand 
function. If we did not do this, we had to have two essentially identical 
functions, with the only difference being that one uses a hash passed in as a 
parameter and one uses our private member variable hash. 


Program Purpose: The purpose of our program is to simulate the "grep" command on
Linux and allow us to index through a folder containing a set of files and 
subdirectories to search for all instances of a user-provided word in these 
files. Users are able to search for words case-sensitively or 
case-insensitively, have their results directed to a new output file, and quit 
the program. 

Acknowledgements: Yoda, Sean, Lily, Erin, Arya, Anush — THANK YOU! 
 

Provided files: 

    HashTable.h: This file defines the HashTable class. Users are able to use 
                 this class to call all of the functions listed in the "how to 
                 run our program" section. 

    HashTable.cpp: This file implements the HashTable class. 

    Makefile: This file compiles all of the header and .cpp files into an 
              executable called gerp. 

    unit_tests.h: This file provides testing for the phase one section of this 
                  project. More about this in the testing section. 

    test_new_file.txt: tests the @f function of our program 

    test_quit.txt: tests the @q function of our program 

    sneaky_test.txt: input commands file searching for a word between an odd
                     series of non-alpha numerical characters

    weird_tests (folder): non_alpha.txt, repetition.txt. more about this in 
                          testing section. 

    cap_case.txt, more_lower.txt, all_lower.txt, test.txt, empty_test.txt: small
                  text files to use as the files to search through for testing 
                    
    test_input_ref.txt, test_input.txt: input file of commands that tests a wide
    variety of commands, including making multiple output files and searching 
    for words that do not exist in our files. Essentially identical, except
    for the names of the new output files that are being created in each. 




How to compile and run your program: 

First, run "make" in terminal. Then, type "./gerp", followed by the input 
directory and lastly the output file. (./gerp inputDirectory outputFile). To 
search for a word case-sensitively, simply type the word into the terminal after
prompted by the word "Query?". To search case-insensitively, either type @i or 
@insensitive before the word you are searching for. To change the output file 
your data is going to, type @f followed by the name of the output file you want
to redirect your data to. To quit the program, type @q or @quit. 


Architectural overview:
In FSTree, the DirNode class is included so that we may find the root of each
tree that is created in order to traverse it.
Our HashTable class incudes both the FSTree and DirNode class, so that we may 
create a tree out of the directory that is given. FSTree is also needed to
traverse throughout the tree and read in the information of each file in the
directory and in all subdirectories. Our HashTable class is called in the main
of our program to carry out both the indexing the proper query loop.

Data Structures/Algorithms used: 
We had several different data structures used in the program. The first being
our hash table, which is a static array that is allocated on the heap and the
capacity is set initially in our constructor. If capacity is filled, then the
expand function is called to create a larger array. Inside each index in the
array we created a std::list that takes in our KeyValue struct. The list itself
takes care of chaining, where if the hash function hashes a new word to the
same index, then the word is added to the end of the list. The KeyValue struct
holds three things: the key, which is a string, and two int vectors, one
holding an index of files and the other holding an index of line numbers. These
two vectors are parallel, and the int at the same index means that at the file
which is indexed by what is stored in the file_index on line of line_number at
the index is an instance of the word.
These two indexes then goes into two other data structures. The file paths is
stored in a vector of strings that holds the file path, which is pushed back 
whenever a new file is being read in, and the corresponding file index is added
to the file_index of each KeyValue struct. The line itself is stored in a 2D
vector, where the horizontal axis is the file they belong in, and the verticle
axis is the line number itself. 

During indexing, our program first builds a tree out of the directory that is
provided, then we traverse the tree to find each file inside it. The files are
opened and each new file and its path is indexed inside our file_paths vector.
We then get the line of each file and update it into our 2d vector of line_info
as well as storing the file index and line number into a newly constructed
KeyValue pair with the stripped version of the key. 
This is when Hashing occurs. The word is changed into all lowercase with the
tolower() function and then hashed through the hash function given in 
hashExample.cpp. If the array at the index is empty, then add the KeyValue pair
to that bucket as the top of a list. If not, traverse the list to either find a
matching key and then store the file index and line num ints inside that pair,
or add a new element to the list at the end with the current KeyValue pair. If
during adding to an existing bucket, check that the previous line num int and
file index are not the same. If they are, then do not add again as it is a
duplicate.
Repeat until all files have been read through and indexed.

During retrieval in our query, we determine if it is insensitive or sensitive.
If it's sensitive, then the program simply hashes the non capitalized version
of the given command to find the correct hash index, then traverse through
until it finds the matching key to the original command, then traverse through 
that bucket to find the correct file index and line num. Go to the respective
index inside our file paths vector and 2d vecotr line info, retrieve the 
strings and concatenante them into the output file.
For insensitive, the process requires a similar logic, but stead of finding
just the same bucket, the key itself is turned into a non-capitalized version
and every bucket that matches the non-capitalized command search will be 
printed into the output file. To avoid duplications, which may occur in 
multiple buckets, we send every line we need to print into a set first, then we
concatenate each element of the set and send that into the output file.

When transferring files, we close the original output file then open the new
one provided, setting it as the designated output file to be passed into our
finding functions.

If @q or @quit is called, the program terminates out of the while loop. If
reaching an end of file, the while query loop stops on its own due to the fact
that the while condition which states there is a continued cin being taken in
no longer holds true.

Testing: 
For phase one, we tested using unit_test. We created tests for stripNonAlphaNum
that tested non-alpha-num characters at the beginning, end, and middle, of 
strings of ints, upper case letters, lowercase letters, and different 
combinations of the six. To test FSTreetraversal, we printed out the filepaths 
for each file that was read into the function and compared it to the output on 
gradescope to ensure that our tree was correctly reaching all of the necessary 
files. The rule for unit_tests was commented out of our makefile, as are the 
rules for building stringProcessing.o and FSTreeTraversal.o. This is because 
we pasted these functions into our HashTable.cpp to use them in our final 
executable. This resulted in us commenting out unit_tests.o because the rule
to make unit_tests relied on these two files that we were no longer using. 

For phase two, we primarily relied on using diff and creating our own test 
files. After diffing and passing tinyData, we started to create our own command
files and data files. 

To test the basics, we created the input files test_new_file.txt and 
test_quit.txt. The only thing written in test_quit was @q, to ensure that our 
program was quitting properly without any extra output. For test_new_file.txt, 
we included a command, then our @f command, then another command to check and 
see if our new output was being moved to our new output file. 

We created a function that is now commented out at the bottom of our 
HashTable.cpp that printed all of the information stored in our hash. We used 
this at the beginning of phase 2 to test that our hash was being built properly.
This was called in our query loop, but that call has been deleted so that we 
wouldn't have any commented out code in the functions that gerp runs for 
submission. The commented-out function at the bottom runs through for loops to 
print all of the keys, line numbers, and file information that is stored in our 
Hash. 

Cap_case.txt was a smaller test file that again looked specifically at 
case-insensitive duplicates. More_lower and all_lower were test files that we 
created at the beginning of our testing to see if our function could index 
through smaller files. These were the files that we used to make sure that our 
hash was working properly, when we called the function described above that 
printed our hash. 

We ran sneaky_test.txt (a file of commands) on smallGutenberg. We created this
testing file after failing one of the tests on gradescope, trying to find the 
bug in our code that was causing the problem. With this file, we found a problem
in where we were calling stripNonAlphaNum, causing a problem in which way 
certain words were stored. sneaky_test.txt consisted of two lines. The first was
the word "joke," surrounded in both the front and back with an odd series of 
non-alpha-numerical characters. The second included repetition in a sentence, 
but with one of the repeats containing a different case-order than the other. We
used this test file to identify the causes for these problems in our code and 
were able to correct them. 

The folder weird_tests consisted of the files non_alpha.txt and repetition.txt. 
This extended the type of tests that were listed in the previous paragraph. 
Non_alpha.txt was a test file of commands that included non-alpha-num characters
in the front and the back of them. Repetition.txt consisted of repetition on 
different words on the same line and was used to ensure that the lines were only
being printed once. We didn't have a problem with case-sensitive repeats, but 
case-insensitive ones were difficult, as mentioned above. We used these two 
tests (combined with an online diff checker, to help sort through the abundance 
of output) to target our problems with repetition and non-alpha num characters 
and ensure that our program was locating the correct word and only printing 
repeats (especially case-insensitive repeats!) only once. Test.txt also 
contained a lot of repetition for testing. 

empty_test.txt was an empty file that we passed into our program as a command 
file to make sure that our program would quit if it reached an "end of file." 
A variety of the files mentioned above also did not include an @q at the end of 
them to test and make sure that our program would quit at the end of a file. 

Test_input_ref.txt and test_input.txt were files that we piped through our 
program as command files. The two files were identical in commands, except for 
when @f was called. For the sake of diff testing, we named the files that 
followed @f differently in each of the two files so that we could run diff 
testing of the two against each other. Other than that, the two files are 
identical. 

All of the files above were run with diff testing with varying combinations of 
commands files and folders to index (including the files provided to us, 
tinyData, smallGutenberg, mediumGutenberg, and largeGutenberg).



Total time spent: 
~26 hours